Today, we continue our series on ecology and 
conservation with a look at a particularly endangered member of the black 
bear family. One in ten. Black bears is actually born with 
a white coat which is the result of a special Gene that 
surfaces in a few local people have named it. The spirit 
bear and according to the legends of these communities. It's snowing 
Kiefer brings with it, a special power. Because of this 
it has always been highly regarded by them so much that they 
do not speak of seeing it to anyone else. It is their way of 
protecting it when strangers visit the area. The white bears 
habitat is quite interesting. The Bears strong relationship with the 
old-growth. Rainforest is a complex one. The white bear 
relies on the huge centuries old trees in the forest in many 
ways. For example, the old growth trees, have extremely 
long routes that help prevent erosion of the soil along the banks of the 
many fish streams. Keeping these banks in town, Act is 
important because these streams are home to Salmon which are the Bears main food source. 
In return. The Bears feeding habits nurture the 
forest as the bears. Eat the salmon, they discard the 
Skin and Bones in great amounts on the forest floor, which provide 
vital nutrients. These produce Lush vegetation, that 
sustains thousands of other types of life forms, from birds, to 
insects, and more Today, the spirit bear 
lives off the coast of the province of British Columbia on a few Islands. 
There is great concern for their survival. Since it is 
estimated that less than 200 of these white Bears Remain. The 
best way to protect them, is to make every effort to preserve the delicate 
balance of their Forest environment. In other words, their 
ecosystem. 
The greatest threat to the Bears existence is the loss of its 
habitat over many years, logging companies have stripped the 
land by cutting down a large number of trees. In addition, 
they have built roads, which have fractured the areas where the bear usually 
feeds and many. Hibernation sites have also been lost. 
The logging of the trees along the streams has damaged the places 
where the Bears fish to make matters. Worse. The number of salmon in 
those streams is declining because there is no legal limit 
on fishing. At the moment. All these influences have a 
negative impact on the spirit Bears very existence, which is 
made all the more Fragile by the fact that reproduction among these bears. 
Ours has always been disappointingly low. And 
so what's the situation going forward? Community 
organizations, environmental groups and the British Columbia government are now 
working together on the problem. The government is now requiring logging 
companies to adopt a better logging method, which is a positive 
step. However, these measures alone may not be 
Efficient to ensure a healthy population of the spirit bear in the 
future. Other steps also need to be taken while it is 
important to maintain the spirit bears habitat. There also needs to be 
more emphasis on its expansion. The move is 
Justified as it will also create space for other Bears. They're losing their 
homes, too. 